---
title: MPC Core Kit
description: "MPC Core Kit | Documentation - Web3Auth"
---

The **Core-Kit Wallet Management SDKs** cater towards a more hands-on, customizable approach while
creating your own experience toward user onboarding. Tailored for developers who prioritize direct
control and customization over their authentication flows, the Core-Kit allows for the creation of
sophisticated, user-centric authentication processes, where Web3Auth operates seamlessly in the
background, invisible to the end user.

## Key Features

- **Customizable UI & UX:** Empowers developers to design and implement their own user interfaces
  and experiences for login and multi-factor authentication (MFA), ensuring a seamless and cohesive
  brand presentation.

- **Owning the Infrastructure:** Provides the flexibility for developers to fully control the wallet
  management and authentication flows, aligning with specific project requirements and enhancing
  security.

- **No Redirection:** Distinguishes itself from the Plug and Play model by eliminating the need for
  user redirection to `auth.web3auth.io` for authentication. This integration ensures all
  authentication flows are contained within your application, offering a more integrated and
  uninterrupted user experience.

- **Platform Compatibility:** Maintains broad support across major platforms, including Web, React
  Native, iOS, and Android, ensuring developers can leverage Core Kit's capabilities regardless of
  the target environment.

Core Kit is meticulously segmented into two distinct parts: **Single Factor Authentication (SFA)**
and **Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)**, each designed to cater to varying levels of security and
user interaction preferences within your application framework. While SFA offers a streamlined
onboarding process, MFA introduces a more robust security mechanism by employing a 2 out of 3 (2/3)
Key Share setup, enhancing the authentication's non-custodial nature.

## Single Factor Authentication (SFA)

The SFA SDKs provide the most streamlined process for user onboarding within the Web3Auth ecosystem.
This straightforward approach allows users to quickly gain access by simply clicking on the login
button and connecting to their preferred social account through OAuth, or opting for a passwordless
flow such as email-passwordless or biometric authentication. Upon successful authentication, a
private key is generated and securely delivered to your application, reconstructed within its
environment.

This process employs a 1/1 Key Share setup, where the complete key, facilitated by the Web3Auth Auth
Network's key shares, is directly integrated into your application. Despite its simplicity, this
flow adheres to non-custodial principles, thanks to the Web3Auth network's 5/9 consensus mechanism
for generating key shares. However, it's worth noting that, due to the reliance on OAuth provider
credentials for key generation, this method could be considered semi-custodial.

To enhance security and ensure a fully non-custodial experience, it's recommended that users
activate MFA. This additional layer introduces a 2/3 Key Share setup, solidifying the authentication
process's non-custodial nature and offering an elevated level of security and control to the user.

## Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

The MFA component of the Core Kit is designed for heightened security and user control. In this 2/3
setup, users are endowed with three key shares: ShareA, ShareB, and ShareC, each serving a distinct
role in the authentication process:

- **ShareA:** This share is managed and distributed within Web3Auth's Auth Network. Users can access
  this share through an OAuth login provider that they own, such as a Google account. This ensures
  that one of the key components of their authentication is tied to a familiar and secure service.

- **ShareB:** Designed to reside directly on the user's device, ShareB's storage method is
  inherently tied to the device and operating system's capabilities. For example, on mobile devices,
  this share might be secured in device storage protected by biometric authentication, providing
  both convenience and security.

- **ShareC:** Acting as a recovery share, ShareC offers an additional layer of security. Users can
  choose to store this share on a different device, download it for offline keeping, or even base it
  on user input such as a password, security questions, or even a physical hardware device.

To access their wallet, users must demonstrate ownership of at least two of these three shares, akin
to traditional Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) systems. This requirement ensures a robust security
framework, significantly mitigating the risk of unauthorized access while still offering flexibility
and recovery options for the user.

The Core-Kit Wallet Management SDKs are designed for projects that require a tailored approach to
authentication, providing the tools and flexibility necessary to build advanced, secure, and
integrated authentication systems. This approach not only enhances the user experience by keeping
all interactions within the native application environment but also gives developers the
unprecedented ability to mold and adapt the authentication process to meet the exact needs of their
user base.
