---
title: "Web3Auth MPC Core Kit Swift SDK"
sidebar_label: Overview
description: "Web3Auth MPC Core Kit Swift SDK | Documentation - Web3Auth"
---

import TkeyMpcFlowDark from "@site/static/images/tkey-mpc-flow-dark.png";
import TkeyMpcFlowLight from "@site/static/images/tkey-mpc-flow-light.png";

Web3Auth's [mpc-core-kit-swift](https://github.com/Web3Auth/mpc-core-kit-swift) SDK is simple and
easy-to-use SDK, which helps you implement the Web3Auth MPC Features while giving you the
flexibility to customize the UI and UX of the authentication process.

Compared to other Web3Auth SDKs, such as Plug and Play (PnP) and Single Factor Auth (SFA) SDKs,
where the private key is securely reconstructed on the user's device and used to sign transactions,
the MPC TSS architecture ensures that the private key is never reconstructed for signing. However,
the SDK provides options to export the private key if the user wants to use their account in other
wallets. This approach eliminates vendor lock-in, unlike other MPC solutions.

Instead, the partial key shares are stored at different locations which are used to generate the
partial signatures. The final signature is generated combining the partial signatures using the TSS.
Since the private key is never reconstructed, it's more secure approach.

:::info

The SDK is only available for the [Enterprise Plan](https://web3auth.io/pricing.html). However, you
can test the SDK with all features enabled in the `sapphire_devnet`.

:::

## Web3Auth MPC Infrastructure

The Web3Auth infrastructure is designed to ensure the security of user keys. Instead of being stored
in a single location, the key is divided into multiple parts and distributed across the user's
devices and our Auth Network. This means that the key is always available and never in danger of
being compromised.

The traditional Web3Auth SDK uses Shamir Secret Sharing (SSS) to dynamically reconstruct the key in
the frontend. However, with the new Web3Auth MPC (Multi Party Computation) architecture, this is no
longer necessary. Instead, partial keys are stored in different locations, and the user's device is
used to make partial signatures for messages and transactions.

These partial signatures are then combined using the TSS (Threshold Signature Scheme) to create a
final signature, which can be used to make a transaction on the blockchain. The result is a more
secure and user-friendly authentication process that helps to protect against key theft and other
types of security breaches.

The Threshold Signature Scheme (TSS) is a cryptographic primitive for distributed key generation and
signing. The use of TSS in Web3Auth's Auth Network is a new paradigm that can provide numerous
benefits, especially in terms of security.

<picture>
  <source srcset={TkeyMpcFlowLight} media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" />
  <source srcset={TkeyMpcFlowDark} media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" />
  <img
    src={TkeyMpcFlowLight}
    style={{ display: "block", maxHeight: "600px", margin: "20px auto" }}
    alt="This diagram describes the relationship between the Web3Auth SDK and integrating application"
  />
</picture>

As you can notice in this diagram above, the final output, i.e., the User's TSS Account, is
generated in multiple stages within the infrastructure. Since this is a TSS- MPC based
infrastructure, you don't get back a private key, but signatures that can be used to make
transactions on the blockchain. Let's understand each of these stages in detail.

## Types of Factors

### Social Login Factor

This is the primary way for a user to access their account. This step involves authentication of
user using a preferred social login provider. The `idToken` received from the social login provider
here is passed to the Web3Auth Auth Network to generate the TSS Shares in the Nodes.

By default, these nodes have a threshold of 3/5 that can be customized according to requirements.
When a user logs in, the Auth Network generates signatures corresponding to the TSS Shares in the
nodes and returns them to the user's end. These signatures are then used alongside other shares to
generate the final TSS Account signatures.

### Hashed Cloud Factor

The MPC Core Kit SDK starts in a 2/2 flow by default. This means when user's logs in, a social login
factor is generated and at the same time SDK will generate a hashed cloud factor. This hashed cloud
factor is derived on the front end and stored in the encrypted metadata server. Please refer to the
above architecture to understand more about factors.

This is done to make sure the user can access their account from any device without having to
generate a new factor. The hashed cloud factor is deleted when the user enables the MFA.

### Device Factor (Factor Index: 2)

This is the second factor used to access the user's account. This step involves the generation of a
TSS Share on the user's device and using that to generate a final signature for the TSS Account
alongside the social login factor. This ensures the user logs in using their trusted device and
maintains a proper non-custodial setup.

### Backup Factor (Factor Index: 3)

A user has a choice to generate as many backup factors as needed to access their account. This step
involves the generation of a TSS Share on the user's end and storing them in whichever location they
prefer. This share can be used similarly to the device share to generate a final signature for the
TSS Account alongside the social login and/or device factors.

When user changes their device, their device factor will not be present on the new device. In that
case, the user can use the backup factor to access their account. You can choose to define the
backup factor of your choice like social recovery, Email OTP, SMS OTP, Authenticator app, etc.

## Threshold

The threshold is the minimum number of shares required to generate a final signature for the TSS
Account. By default, the Auth Network requires 3 out of 5 shares (3/5) to generate a signature. This
means that out of the 5 shares distributed across different nodes, any 3 shares can be combined to
create the final signature. This setup ensures high availability and security, as it allows for some
shares to be unavailable or compromised without affecting the overall system.

On the user's device front, the default threshold is set to 2 out of 3 shares (2/3). This means that
out of the 3 shares available on the user's device, any 2 shares can be used to generate the final
signature. This setup provides a balance between security and ease of access, ensuring that the user
can still access their account even if one share is unavailable.

Only the user level threshold can can be customized according to the requirements. The Auth Network
threshold is fixed at 3/5.

Please note that when a user logs in for the first time, the threshold is set to 2 out of 2 shares
(2/2). This means that both shares are required to generate the final signature. After the user
enables the MFA flow, the threshold is set to 2 out of 3 shares (2/3), providing an additional layer
of security.

## Components of a Factor

### TSS Shares

The TSS Shares are the main component needed for the generation of the final working signature of
the user. These shares are generated using distributed key generation(DKG) and are stored in the
Auth Network and the user's device. Since these shares are generated using MPC, they are **never
reconstructed** and always stay decentralized and secure.

We've included a function in the SDK that lets you reconstruct the TSS Key from the shares. Just a
heads-up, this function is marked as unsafe, so it's best to use it with extra layers of security.
For example, only make this function available when MFA is enabled and ask the user to input their
MFA share while exporting.

### Metadata Key & Shares

The Metadata Key closely mimics the storage of the TSS Shares. The only difference is that the
metadata key is always reconstructed and used for its encryption/decryption capabilities. It
utilizes basic Shamir's Secret Sharing and is initially generated on a user's front end. The
metadata key is utilized for the encryption/decryption of the user metadata stored in the Web3Auth
Metadata Server.

One metadata share gives you the **read** access to the metadata server, while two or more (as the
threshold is reached) give you the **write** access.

### Factor Keys

To enable refresh, deletion, and rotational capabilities on the TSS Key, we also introduce factor
keys. Factor Keys are randomly generated keys unique to each factor-generated user's device and
backups, like users' phones, chrome extensions, on their cloud, assisting third parties, etc.

As share to the TSS Key and/or Metadata Key may rotate, Factor Keys allow a consistent secret to be
saved in these different locations.

## Understanding the SDK Flow

By default, for a new user, the MPC Core Kit SDK starts in a 2/2 flow. This means that the user will
have to generate a social login factor and a hashed cloud factor. This hashed cloud factor is
derived on the SDK front end and stored in the encrypted metadata server. This enables the user to
start the login process from any device without creating an MFA factor.

This is done to make sure the user can access their account from any device without having to
generate a new factor. However, this makes the initial onboarding, semi-custodial. To make the
account completely non-custodial, the user can use the enable MFA feature to generate a device and
backup factor and delete the hashed cloud factor. This makes the user's account completely
non-custodial in 2/3 setup and enables them to access their account from any device using the backup
share. Device share is saved on a trusted device and can be used to access the account from that
device seamlessly without having to generate a new factor.

## Resources

- [Troubleshooting](/troubleshooting): Find quick solutions to common issues faced by developers.

- [Source Code](https://github.com/web3auth/mpc-core-kit-swift): Web3Auth is open sourced. You can
  find the source code on our GitHub repository.

- [Community Support Portal](https://web3auth.io/community): Join our community to get support from
  our team and other developers.
